# LAN7800

[LAN7800](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/product/lan7800):

> Microchip's LAN7800 is a Super Speed **USB3 Gen1 to 10/100/1000 Gigabit Ethernet bridge** providing an ultra high-performance and cost-effective **USB to Ethernet connectivity** solution. The LAN7800 contains an integrated 10/100/1000 **Gigabit Ethernet PHY**, **USB PHY**, Hi-Speed USB 2.0 device controller, SuperSpeed USB3.2 Gen 1 device controller, 10/100/1000 Gigabit Ethernet MAC, Integrated OTP, EEPROM controller. The device supports 10BASE-T, 100BASE-TX and 1000BASE-T Ethernet and implements Control, Interrupt, Bulk-in and Bulk-out USB endpoints. The Ethernet controller supports auto-negotiation, auto-polarity correction, HP Auto-MDIX† support and is compliant with IEEE 802.3/802.3u/802.3ab standards.
>
> USB-based networking provides flexibility for the routing and placement of network connections anywhere in the system. USB-based solutions leverage the existing USB stack for the Ethernet driver. The LAN7800 is also available with a wide range of drivers including Windows®, Mac® and Linux®.
>
> The LAN7800 also offers Microchip's NetDetach™ and UniClock™ technologies. NetDetach allows for reduced power by enabling the host CPU to enter a low-power state when Ethernet is inactive. UniClock simplifies the clocking scheme and reduces system BOM cost by using a single 25MHz crystal for both USB and Ethernet connectivity. Multiple power management features are provided, including various low-power modes and Magic Packet™, Wake-on-LAN (WoL) and Link Status Change wake events. MSFT QOAC (Always On Always Connected) is also supported. These wake events can be programmed to initiate a USB remote wakeup and if desired, also generate a hardware PME event. The device is available in commercial (0°C to 70°C) and industrial temperature range (-40°C to 85°C) options.
>
> †HP Auto-MDIX eliminates the need for special "crossover" cables when connecting LAN devices together.
>
> Microchip's complimentary and confidential MicroCHECK design review service, which offers insight from the initial concept to the final PCB layout, is available to customers who are using our products in their projects. You can confidently submit your design materials in a secure and private setting, and our expert engineers will provide individualized feedback to enhance your design. MicroCHECK service is subject to Microchip's Program Terms and Conditions and requires a myMicrochip account.

## LAN9668

[LAN9668](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/product/lan9668):

> The LAN9668 is part of a family (LAN966x) of compact and cost-effective, **multi-port Gigabit TSN Ethernet Switches** with **two integrated 10/100/1000BASE-T PHYs** and a **600 MHz [ARM Cortex A7](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ARM_Cortex-A7) CPU subsystem**. The LAN9668 includes **eight ports**.
>
> In addition to the two integrated PHYs, the LAN9668 supports up to 2 RGMII/RMII, up to 3 1000BASE-X/SerDes/2.5GBASE-X/KX, and up to 2 Quad-SGMII/Quad-USGMII interfaces.
>
> A comprehensive Application Programming Interface (API) and turnkey software development package accelerates time-to-market for managed Ethernet applications. The software API package integrates easily with third-party software, preserving existing software investments. Numerous software application notes and configuration guides are available here.

## Ethernet PHY

[What is an Ethernet PHY?](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ethernet_physical_layer)
