# Chapter 04: Software Development Methodologies

## 1. Secure Development Lifecycle (SDL)

### 1.1 What to do

> ... all one has to do is add a series of process checks to enable the development process to include the necessary security elements in the development process.

### 1.2 Objectives of SDL

> ... to provide a foundation where the **principles** of security can be used and instantiated in the software being developed.

where the "principles" can be found in Chapter 1:

- Security tenets:
  - Confidentiality
  - Integrity
  - Availability
  - Authentication
  - Authorization
  - Auditability
  - Session Management
  - Exception Management
  - Configuration Management
- Security design principles:
  - Least privilege
  - Separation of duties
  - Defense in depth
  - Fail to a secure state
  - Economy of mechanism
  - Complete mediation
  - Open design
  - Least common mechanism
  - Psychological acceptability
  - Leverage existing components
  - Weakest link
  - Single point of failure

### 1.3 SMART principle

The SMART principle can be applied to both the software and the software development process.

Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Realistic, Time bound.

### 1.4 Security vs. Quality

- Software of high quality **may not** be secure;
- but software of low quality **cannot** be secure.

### 1.5 Security Features != Secure Software

> ... secure software development is about ensuring that all elements of a software package are constructed in a fashion where they operate securely.

> ... secure software does what it is designed to do and only what it is designed to do.

Counter-example: Debian Linux random-number bug, where a design flaw resulted in a flawed random-number function which resulted in cryptographic failures.

### 1.6 SDL components

- Software team awareness and education
  - basic knowledge
  - advanced topics
- Gates and security requirements
- Bug tracking

> ... a security bug does not mean that it will always be fixed right away. ... A security bug that is next to impossible to exploit and has a mitigating factor covering it may not get immediate attention.

#### 1.7 DREAD model

(TODO)


