# Chapter 06: Data Classification and Categorization

Data is "one of the key assets in an enterprise" thus it should be well protected. In big organizations, the data flows can be quite complicated. To protect data, we need to classify and label the data and manage them according to different security needs, because not all data should be protected in the same way. We need to match the **cost** of protection and the value of the data that are under protection. In other words, we should not make a lot of cost to protect data that are not that valuable.

In order to determine the most appropriate way to protect the data, we need to classify the data from the following aspects (or even more):
- State: e.g, created, stored, transmitted, changed, deleted.
- Usage: There may not be just one way to determine how data is used. The textbook shows two metods:
  - Method 1: How the data is used in the business:
    - Internal data
    - Input data
    - Output data
  - Method 2: Whether data is used regarding privacy:
    - Security-sensitive data
    - Personally Identifiable Information (PII)
    - Hidden data: (Should be hidden from unauthorized access)
- Risk Impact: The risk impact if the data is lost, e.g., high, moderate, low.
- Sensitivity

Labeling the data using metadata can be a way to implement data classification.

Data ownership:
- **Data owner** determines the requirements of data management, such as the access level (e.g., who can read, who can write, who can delete), classification, etc. An example is the organization's CFO. An owner may not directly manage the data.
- **Data custodian** does the actual data management to meet the requirements defined by the data owner. An example of the organization's database administrator. A custodian directly manages the data.

Data structure:
- Structured: such as in database or in formats such as XML/JSON.
- Unstructured: In documents written in prose.

Data lifecycle:
- Generation
- Retention
- Disposal
